#summary List of devices that were tested with SmartCard API support

Android is running on different devices from various manufacturers. With the permanent increasing amount it is impossible to keep track of all activities. This overview should list the devices and configuration that was tested successfully with !SmartCard API support.<br/>
*System manufacturers & SEEK-followers*: please provide feedback to keep this list up to date!<br/>

===Development devices===
The following devices were used for !SmartCard API development and internal testing according to [BuildingTheSystem Building the System]

|| *Device* || || *ASSD support* || *UICC support* || *eSE support* || || *Notes* ||
|| ADP1 (dream) || || 1.1.0 || - || n/a || || not supported anymore, SCAPI 1.1 was latest release ||
|| ADP2 (sapphire) || || 1.2.0 || - || n/a || || not supported anymore, SCAPI 1.2 was latest release ||
|| Nexus One (passion) || || 2.3.0 || - || n/a || || not supported anymore, SCAPI 2.3.0 was latest release ||
|| Nexus S (crespo) || || n/a || 2.4.0 _(1)_ || 2.4.0 _(2)_ || || reference for UICC development ||
|| Galaxy Nexus (maguro) || || n/a || - || 2.4.0 _(2)_ ||  || reference for eSE development ||
|| Nexus 7 (grouper) || || n/a || n/a || 2.4.0 _(2)_ || || || 
|| Xoom (wingray) || || 2.4.0 || - || n/a || || reference for ASSD development ||

_note.1_ required baseband firmware & RIL files are not available in public!<br/>
_note.2_ eSE secure messaging keys are not available in public!

<br/>

===Commercial devices===
The following devices summarizes all commercially available devices that have !SmartCard API integrated

|| *Device* || || *OS build* || *BB build* || *SCAPI* || || *ASSD* || *UICC* || *eSE* || || *Notes* ||
|| Samsung GT-I9100P || || <font size=1>GINGERBREAD.XXLA3 || <font size=1>I9100PXXKI3 || 2.2.2 || || - || + || - || || [DeviceDetails details] ||
|| Samsung GT-I9300 || || <font size=1>IMM76D.I9300XXALEF ||<font size=1>I9300XXLEF || 2.3.2 || || - || + || - || || [DeviceDetails details] ||
|| Sony Xperia S (LT26i) || || <font size=1>6.0.A.3.75 || <font size=1>M8660-AAABQOLYM-314005T || 2.3.4 || || - || + || - || || [DeviceDetails details] ||
|| Sony Xperia P (LT22i) || ||  ||  || 2.3.4 || || - || + || - || || reported by Sony ||
|| Sony Xperia U (ST25i) || ||  ||  || 2.3.4 || || - || + || - || || reported by Sony ||
|| Sony Xperia Sola (MT27i) || ||  ||  || 2.3.4 || || - || + || - || || reported by Sony ||
|| Sony Xperia Go (ST27i) || ||  ||  || 2.3.4 || || - || + || - || || reported by Sony ||

_note_ SCAPI-2.3.4 is based on 2.3.2 with internal adaptations from Sony


<br><br>
===MSC !SmartcardService===
All devices with SD slot and transparent access to the SD flash memory are supported by the MSC !SmartCardService or the !MscPluginTerminal.<br/>
The following devices were reported not to work due to the missing direct access to the flash memory

|| *Device* || || *Model* || *OS* || *OS build* || || *Notes* ||
|| Motorola Pro+ || || MB632 || 2.3.5 || 5.51Q-110_ELW-TA-21 || || reported by G&D SFS ||
|| Motorola Droid || || || || || || reported by G&D SFS||
|| Motorola Atrix || || || || || || reported by G&D SFS ||

_note_: On devices where the !SmartCard API is already installed, the MSC !SmartcardService cannot be installed again. In such case, the !MscPluginTerminal has to be used instead.