#summary Pcsc-Lite support for Android devices in userspace: Pcscdroid

= Introduction =

Pcscdroid is an Android application that provides pcsc-lite support for other applications without needing root privileges to read and write through pcsc to MSC-Cards.

The Application uses a ported version of pcsc-lite for Android with a custom IFDHandler to support MSC-Cards.


= Details =

Pcscdroid starts a ported version of pcsc-lite daemon in its userspace. The application comes with a custom IFDHandler to support MSC-Cards. Pcscdroid currently only works with MSC-Cards. We are currently working on Ccid support for ccid compatible card readers.
Pcscdroid provides access to pcsc-lite over an IPC-Interface located at:

{{{
$ /data/data/com.gieseckedevrient.android.pcscdroid/files/ipc/
}}}

The application starts a Android service that runs in the background to manage pcscd - also when the app is backgrounded.
Within the app you are able to control the daemon (start/stop) and see the log output of pcscd. Also the path of the MSC-Card and its ATR is provided. In the settings tab one can filter the logs for APDUs and/or DEBUG output.
All the files needed for execution and communication are located in the apps _files_ directory and its _lib_ directory (for JNI).


We also provide a custom _libpcsclite.so_ and _libpcsclite.a_ for dynamicly and staticly linking the library. It provides the standard libpcsclite interface.
A sample of _testpcsc_ ist also provided to show you how to compile the test programm with the custom library provided.

The application was tested and works on Samsung Galaxy S3, Samsung Galaxy S2, Motorola Xoom.


= Installation =

To install Pcscdroid on your device simply download the Package that includes the APK here: *[http://code.google.com/p/seek-for-android/downloads/detail?name=Pcscdroid-01.tar.gz Pcscdroid]*

Next install it with

{{{
$ adb install Pcscdroid.apk
}}}

onto your device.
Now the app should be available in you application launcher. After launching the app press start to install and run the pcsc-lite daemon.
To stop the daemon simply press the same toggle button again.
In the log tab you are able to see the log output of pcscd.
The settings tab lets you filter the log ouput and clean the log. Here you can also remove the files installed by Pcscdroid.

To Remove the application stop the service and remove it in your program manager.

To test if pcscd is running and working execute the _testpcsc_ program delivered within the apk after starting the service by running following command from your phones console:

{{{
$ /data/data/com.gieseckedevrient.android.pcscdroid/files/testpcsc
}}}