= Introduction =

The [http://source.android.com/compatibility/cts-intro.html Compatibility Test Suite (CTS)] can be extended so it can be used also to test the Open Mobile API (Smartcard API 2.3.X).

All test cases for testing the Open Mobile API are contained in a test plan called '!OpenMobile'.

The tests include and utilize a mock plug-in reader that simulates a secure element with an appropriate applet. So the tests can be executed without a real card.

The following paragraphs describe
  * how to build an extended CTS containing the additional Open Mobile API tests,
  * how to run the tests, and
  * where to find documentation and results of the tests.

= How to Build the CTS =

For building CTS with Open Mobile API tests
  * change into directory of Android build with Open Mobile API
  * extract file {{{smartcard-api-2_3_2/cts.patch}}} from archive {{{smartcard-api-2_3_2.tgz}}} ([http://seek-for-android.googlecode.com/files/smartcard-api-2_3_2.tgz download]) and apply it as patch and
  * build the CTS:

{{{
$ cd ANDROID_ROOT_DIR
$ tar -xOf PATH_TO_PATCH_ARCHIVE/smartcard-api-2_3_2.tgz smartcard-api-2_3_2/cts.patch | patch -p1 
$ make cts
}}}

= How to Run the CTS Tests =
After the CTS has been built successfully with the Open Mobile API
test extensions, in directory {{{out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/tools}}}
the test tool {{{startcts}}} (Android 2.3.x) / {{{cts-tradefed}}} (Android 4.0.x) can be found .<br>

Execution of the whole test plan for the Open Mobile API is started by the following command:<br>
for Android 2.3.x:<br>
{{{
$ ./out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/tools/startcts start --plan OpenMobile
}}}

for Android 4.0.x:<br>
{{{
$ ./out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/tools/cts-tradefed run --plan OpenMobile
}}}

It is also possible to execute only a part of a test plan.<br>
E.g. to execute only tests of test case {{{TestConformanceRequirements}}} use the following command:<br>
for Android 2.3.x:<br>
{{{
$ ./out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/tools/startcts start --plan OpenMobile -p org.simalliance.openmobileapi.cts.TestConformanceRequirements
}}}

for Android 4.0.x:<br>
{{{
$ ./out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/tools/cts-tradefed run --class org.simalliance.openmobileapi.cts.TestConformanceRequirements
}}}

If logging of test plan results is not required (e.g. for quick tests) the tests can also be executed without the CTS test tool by following two {{{adb}}} commands:

Installation of test package:<br>
{{{
$ adb install -r out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/repository/testcases/CtsOpenMobileApiTestCases.apk
}}}

Execution of test:<br>
{{{
$ adb shell am instrument -w [ -e reader <reader> ] [ -e class <class> ] org.simalliance.openmobileapi.cts/org.simalliance.openmobileapi.cts.InstrumentationTestRunnerParameterized
}}}
Parameters {{{-e reader <reader>}}} and {{{-e class <class>}}} are optional.<br>
If the {{{reader}}} parameter is not present "CTSMock" reader is used.<br>
If the {{{class}}} parameter is not present all test classes of the package are executed.

E.g.<br>
{{{
adb shell am instrument -w -e reader "CTSMock" -e class org.simalliance.openmobileapi.cts.TestConformanceRequirements org.simalliance.openmobileapi.cts/org.simalliance.openmobileapi.cts.InstrumentationTestRunnerParameterized
}}}

= Documentation and Results of CTS Tests = 

The documentation of the test cases of the test plans for the Open Mobile API are located in<br>
{{{out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/repository/testcases/CtsOpenMobileTestCases.xml}}}

The results of test runs are stored in directory<br>
{{{out/host/linux-x86/cts/android-cts/repository/results}}}. 

Sample result files of a test run of this test plan can be downloaded [http://seek-for-android.googlecode.com/files/CTS_results-2_3_0.zip here].
<br><br>