#summary Summary of the release notes of all SmartCard API versions

= !SmartCard API =

|| Version || Date || Code || Android ||
|| 2.3.2 || 06.02.2012 || 2 || 4.0.3 ||
|| 2.3.1-rc1 || 20.01.2012 || 0 || 4.0.3 ||
|| 2.3.0 || 05.12.2011 || 1 || 2.3.7 ||
|| 2.2.2 || 23.08.2011 || - || 2.3.5 ||
|| 2.2.1 || 15.07.2011 || - || 2.3.4 ||
|| 2.2.0 || 01.07.2011 || - || 2.3.4 ||
|| 2.1.2 || 21.06.2011 || - || 2.3 ||
|| 2.1.1 || 15.04.2011 || - || 2.3 ||
|| 2.0 || 28.02.2011 || - || 2.3 ||
|| 1.2 || 12.11.2010 || - || 2.2.1 ||
|| 1.1 || 25.10.2010 || - || 2.2 ||
|| 1.0 || 09.07.2010 || - || 2.2 ||
|| 0.1 || 18.01.2010 || - || 2.1 ||

<br/>


=== v2.3.2 === 
 * ICS support (Android-4.0.3)
 * compatible with SCAPI-2.3.0
 * all open issues from 2.3.1-rc1 resolved


=== v2.3.1-rc1 === 
 * Pre-release
 * ICS support (Android-4.0.3)
 * compatible with SCAPI-2.3.0


=== v2.3.0 === 
 * Compliant to the latest [http://simalliance.org/ SIMalliance] Open Mobile API Specification V2.02 (transport layer only) 
 * !SmartCard API is only based on the Open Mobile API SIMalliance
 * The namespace "android.smartcard" was completely removed
 * !SmartCard API is only provided as shared library. 


=== v2.2.2 === 
 * !SmartCard API is only provided as shared library.
 * !SmartCard API is only based on the Open Mobile API [http://simalliance.org/ SIMalliance ] 
 * The !SmartCard API can be extended with the old API (V 1.X) with the backward compatibilty add on patch.
 * The permission for using the SmartCardAPI was changed from "android.permission.SMARTCARD" to "org.simalliance.openmobileapi.SMARTCARD".


=== v2.2.1 === 
 * Fully compliant to the latest [http://simalliance.org/ SIMalliance ]Open Mobile API Specification (V1.01)
 * New SE Access Control Enforcer can restrict the access to Secure Elements by predefined policies. See the SE Access Control description. 
 * CTS extension for !SmartCard API. (Some corrections were made to enable CTS also for the shared library based !SmartCard API)
 * Support of [http://www.sdcard.org/developers/tech/ASSD/ ASSD] to access SD memory cards with an embedded security system  (Note: The also provided ASSD kernel patch for creating the ASSD kernel driver has to be used for enabling the ASSD support) 
 * The ASSD solution replaces the interim proprietary solution "MSC" for accessing a Secure SD cards.
 * !SmartCard API is also provided as a shared library. A new alternative (but experimental) solution.


=== v2.2.0 ===
 * Fully compliant to SIMalliance Open Mobile API Specification V1.01. 
 * New SE Access Control Enforcer can restrict the access to Secure Elements by predefined policies. See the SE Access Control description.
 * CTS extension for !SmartCard API. (as provided in v2.1.2)
 * Patch for ASSD (Advanced Security SD) was removed again as the needed ASSD kernel driver is not available yet (but will coming soon).
 * !SmartCard API is also provided as a shared library. A new alternative (but experimental) solution (as provided in v2.1.2)
 * UICC and Emulator patch files are now compliant to Android 2.3.4r1 (UICC/Emulator patch files in v2.1.2 cause a version mismatch with Android 2.3.4r1)

=== v2.1.2 ===
 * Fully compliant to SIMalliance Open Mobile API Specification V1.01. 
 * New SE Access Control unit can restrict the access to Secure Elements by predefined policies. See the SE Access Control description.
 * CTS test suite for !SmartCard API.
 * Support of ASSD (Advanced Security SD).
 * API is now also provided as a shared library.

=== v2.1.1 ===
 * fully SIM Alliance Open Mobile API compliant
 * added Terminal provider interface
 * minor bugfixes and extensions in the terminal implementation:
   * !MscTerminal is connected at later time if initial connect failed
   * !SmartMxTerminal was adapted to the latest interface
   * !UiccTerminal was improved in terms of error handling

=== v2.0 ===
 * Gingerbread support
 * API redesign to provide a better abstraction of the SE sevices

=== v1.2 ===
 * !MscTerminal redesign
 * Msc native JNI: better APDU waiting loop
 * dynamic card terminal instantiation:
   * add or remove supported !XvyTerminal.java implementations by adding or removing files
   * no further source code adaptions required
 * internal cleanup: moved all terminal implementation into terminal namespace
 * bugfix: APDU size of 255 bytes with !MscTerminal 

=== v1.1 ===
 * getAtr() removed from ISmartcardService
 * major internal redesign
   * PC/SC transport system replaced by Terminal implementations on the Java layer
   * PC/SC moved to a separate package that accesses the !SmartCard API with a single IFD Handler
 * UICC handler added with reference implementation for OEMs and emulator support
   * AT commands AT+CCHO, AT+CGLA, AT+CCHC and AT+CSIM supported
 * new sample application _!ApduTester_ available

=== v1.0 ===
 * !SmartCardService as the final architecture for a smart card library for Android
 * minor bugfixes
   * mapping of logical channels to CLA bytes
   * compilation issues
 * renaming of seek service to !SmartcardService
 * shutdown() function added
 * integrated in Android build system
 * Channel management not ISO conform to allow non ISO CLA bytes to be used for channel management

=== v0.1 ===
 * initial *alpha* release
 * first release of a _Service-based_ approach for the main instance of the library instead of plain framework extensions