.TH PCSCD 8 "January 2007" Muscle "PC/SC Lite"
.SH NAME
pcscd \- PC/SC Smart Card Daemon
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pcscd
.RI [ options ]
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -a ", " \-\-apdu
log APDUs and SW using the debug method (see
.BR \-\-debug ).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " \fIfile\fP"
Specifies the file \fIfile\fP as an alternate location for
.IR /usr/local/etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf .
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-foreground
Runs pcscd in the foreground and sends log messages to stderr instead of
syslog(3).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
use the lowest log level. Any log message of this level or above will be
sent to stderr or syslog(3) depending on the use of
.BR \-\-foreground .
.TP
.B \-\-info
use info log level. This is the default log level.
.TP
.B \-\-error
use error log level.
.TP
.B \-\-critical
use critical log level.
.PP
The log levels are ordered as: debug < info < error < critical. Use a
log level l will log this level and all the levels above it.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Displays information about the pcscd command line
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Displays the program version number
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-hotplug
Ask pcscd to rescan the USB buses for added or removed readers and re-read
the
.I /usr/local/etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file to detect added or removed non-USB readers (serial or PCMCIA).
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
pcscd is the daemon program for pcsc-lite. It is a resource manager that
coordinates communications with smart card readers and smart cards and
cryptographic tokens that are connected to the system.
.PP
It allows applications to access smart cards and readers using the
winscard API but without knowing details of the card or reader.
.PP
pcscd coordinates the loading of drivers for card readers.
.
.SH "SERIAL SMART CARD READER DRIVERS"
Smart card reader drivers are placed in the
.I /usr/local/lib/pcsc/drivers
directory. Each driver is simply an
.I .so
file.  pcscd locates the driver using the
.I /usr/local/etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file.  See the
.BR reader.conf (5)
manual page for more information.
Drivers are available at \fIhttp://www.musclecard.com/drivers.html\fP.
.
.SH "USB SMART CARD READER DRIVERS"
USB smart card reader drivers are located in
.I /usr/local/lib/pcsc/drivers
directory as a bundle. You shall not add a USB driver in
.I /usr/local/etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
file.
.
.SH FILES
.I /usr/local/etc/reader.conf.d/reader.conf
: Reader configuration file
.PP
.I /var/run/pcscd/pcscd.pid
: process id of the running pcscd
.PP
.I /usr/local/lib/pcsc/drivers
: directory containing bundles for USB drivers
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bundleTool (8),
.BR reader.conf (5),
.BR syslog (3)
.
.SH AUTHORS
David Corcoran <corcoran@musclecard.com> and Ludovic Rousseau
<ludovic.rousseau@free.fr>
